# Steps

1. import pkgs
2. import dataset(s)
3. shape the data to prepare it for analysis
4. run the model
5. review

# Pythagorean Expectation

Expected Win % is proportional to ratio of square of my team's parameter and sum of squares of both teams' parameters. Parameter could be goals,points, etc. Regression analysis ensures right parameter(s).

$$
\text{Expected Win}\%
\propto
\frac{x^2}{x^2 + y^2}
$$
where

- x = parameter scored
- y = parameter conceded

A graph for pythagorean expectation vs win % will show a strong relation. Relation is characterized by the following values

- correlation
- standard error
  smaller the better
- $t$ statistic
  greater the better
  $t = \frac{ \text{coefficent} } { \text{std err} }$, (coefficient = slope)
- $p \le 0.05$ (statistically significant)
  smaller the better
- R-squared
  greater the better

## Advantages

You might be thinking, why not just use the previous W% to predict future W%. The problem is that W% involves randomness. Meanwhile, PE captures the performance of the team.

Imagine a really good team which lost games because of some random events - let’s say opponent goal keepers were just too good; that doesn’t mean that we played bad. Meanwhile PE using shot scored on target/conceded will provide a better picture. Hence, past PE is a better predictor than past W%

## Limitations

This isn’t ideal for

1. small datasets
2. games with smaller innings
3. games like cricket where the chasing team has a target, so it cannot score to the best they can

# Notebook

<iframe src="nb/01.html"></iframe>
