## Ecosystem

consists of

- biotic/abiotic components
- Environment
  everything that surroundings of living organisms

## Factors that sustain life

- components of earth
- flow of usable energy from sun
- cycling of matter/nutrients
- gravity

### Components of earth

- Geosphere
  - Core
  - Mantle
  - Crust
    - Soil
    - Lithosphere (Rocks)
- Hydrosphere (water)
- Cryosphere (ice)
- [Atmosphere](#Atmosphere) (air)
- Biosphere (living organisms)
  require
  - oxygen from atmosphere
  - water from hydrosphere
  - energy from geosphere

## Atmosphere

responsible for absorbing solar energy and re-emitting it

### Major and Constant

essential for life-forms

|                       | %      |
| --------------------- | ------ |
| Nitrogen              | 78     |
| Oxygen                | 21     |
| Argon                 | 0.93   |
| Neon, Helium, Krypton | 0.0001 |

### Minor and Variable

impact weather and other atmospheric process

Without green-house gases, the earth’s surface would be around 30C cooler. However, that is not exactly a bad thing. A healthy amount of GHGs is required for keeping us warm.

|                                                  | %      |
| ------------------------------------------------ | ------ |
| CO2                                              | 0.04   |
| Water Vapor                                      | 0-4    |
| Methane, Sulphur-dioxide, Ozone, Nitrogen Oxides | traces |

## 3 Biggest Mistakes on the Environment

Focusing too much on economic growth

1. using non-recyclable materials
2. using non-renewable energy sources
3. crypto-mining

## Why are Venus and Mars warmer?

because they have a higher concentration of $\ce{CO2}$ (greenhouse gas). Also, Venus’ atmosphere is much thicker, which prevents heat from escaping

## Single-Use Plastic Ban in Dubai

The tariff applies to restaurants, pharmacies and e-commerce deliveries.

A total ban on single-use bags will be implemented in two years.

### Economics

> Reusable bags will become the cost-effective solution for customers, and luckily we come prepared. Carrefour offers a variety of reusable bags which has a lifetime warranty starting from Dh2.5. One reusable bag equals three to five plastic bags and can fit much more items.

### Environment

> Last year research suggests that hundreds of camels have died in the UAE due to plastic ingestion over the previous decade. Around 300 camels perished as a result of indigestible substances made of plastic, which was discovered by employees from Dubai's Central Veterinary Research Laboratory in 2008. It means that one out of every 100 camels in the UAE dies as a result of ingesting plastic rubbish left behind by campers or litterers.

Producing 1 plastic bag has a relatively low environmental impact. The impact of this type of disposable bag comes from using so many of them.

Paper bags are only more eco friendly when reused 4 times or more.

Polypropylene bags are a good choice when considering a reusable alternative. After only 14 uses this bag is already more eco friendly than conventional plastic bags.

Cotton bags have a surprisingly high environmental impact because of the effort that goes into growing cotton and producing the bags. If you can keep this bag for a long time, it will be more eco friendly than plastic bags, but it requires over 173 uses to break even.
