# Lecture 4

- The Practice of Sustainable Happiness: 
1. Expressing Gratitude
2. Cultivating Optimisim 
3. Avoid Overthinking and Social Compaision
4. Practicing acts of Kindness
5. Nurturing Social Relationship
6. Managing Stress, Hardship and Trauma
7. Living in the Present. 
8. Commiting to your Goals. 
9. Taking Care of your Body and Soul. 

- Gratitude is an antidote to negative emotions. The average person, however, probably associates gratitude with saying thank you, 
received. Expressing gratitude is a lot more than saying thank you.

- By definition, the practice of gratitude involves a focus on the present moment, on appreciating your life as It IS today and what has made it so.A grateful disposition is associated with greater happiness, life satisfaction, optimism, pro-social leadership, relationship satisfaction, cooperation, and generous behaviour, and lowers level of envy, possessiveness, anxiety, depression, and post-traumatic stress.

- Eight Ways that Gratitude Boosts Happiness: 
    1. Grateful thinking promotes the savoring of positive life experience.
    2. Expressing gratitude bolsters self-worth and self-esteem.
    3. Gratitude helps people cope with stress and trauma.
    4. The expression of gratitude encourages moral behavior.
    5. Gratitude can help build social bonds, strengthening existing relationships and nurturing new
    ones.
    6. Expressing gratitude tends to inhibit invidious comparisons with others.
    7. The practice of gratitude is incompatible with negative emotions and may actually diminish or
    deter such feelings as anger, bitterness, and greed.
    8. Gratitude helps us thwart hedonic adaptation.

- Hedonic Adaptation : (aka Hedonic Treadmill) Human beings are remarkably adept at becoming rapidly accustomed to sensory or physiological changes. When a mild but conspicuous odor dwells in your apartment, you may completely fail to notice until you have left for a while and returned. This experience is labeled physiological or sensory
adaptation. The same phenomenon. however, occurs with hedonic shifts-that is, relocations, marriages, job changes that make you happier for a time, but only a short time.

- Mental Subtraction : 
    1. Of Positive Events and Relationships : Participants were asked to think about what their lives would have been like had a positive event/meeting never happened; other participants either simply thought about the event or thought about how it was not surprising that the event had happened. The participants who practiced “mental subtraction” — they considered their lives without the positive event—reported feeling more
    positive states and more gratitude than the other participants did.

    2. Why it works : Mental subtraction counteracts our tendency to take positive events in our lives—such as meeting a great person—as givens. When we consider the circumstances that led to a chance encounter,
    we may be surprised by how unlikely that meeting actually was, and how lucky we were that it happened as it did. While it can be painful to think about not having met someone close to us, this scenario provides a negative contrast against which our current situation can be favorably
    compared.

- Two Stages of Gratitude: The two stages of gratitude comprise the recognition of the goodness in our lives, and then how this goodness came to us externally lies. By this process, we recognize the luck of everything that makes our lives—and ourselves—better.

- Gratitude can influence: 
    1. Catharsis: Catharsis is the process in which an individual releases strong emotions.
    2. Reciprocity : Reciprocity, as a concept from social psychology, is about the exchanging of actions. 

- Gratitude as
    1. Trait : As a trait, an individual practices gratitude as part of their daily life and it would be considered a character strength. 
    2. The state of being grateful is a pleasant experience studied by philosophers. 
