docs/index.md, before:

# 👋 Welcome!

Hi there, welcome to the university notes app! This is a collection of notes on Math, Computer, Economics, Finance and so much more. Feel free to share to everyone you know!

You can install right now, by clicking `Add to Home Screen`. Check out the [📱 Installation Guide](#installation-guide) for help.

## ℹ️ Tips

- Use the navbar ⬅️ to go through the website
- For changes/corrections, click the edit button 📝 at the top of any page

## ✨ Contributions

<a href="https://github.com/AhmedThahir/Uni_Notes/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=uni-notes/uni-notes" loading="lazy" />
</a>

A big thank you to all contributors, as this initiative would not be possible without their support! You can check out the progress of the project [here](https://github.com/orgs/uni-notes/projects/1).

Want to join the initiative? Collaborators will be mentioned for their contributions!

## Installation Guide

|      Platform      | Installation Step                                            |
| :----------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Android** Chrome | - Click the three dots at the top right<br />- Click `Install App` |
|   **iOS** Safari   | - Click share button in the bottom<br />- Click `Add to Home Screen` |
|   **iOS** Chrome   | ❌<br/>😕 I hate this; open the link on Safari                 |
|    **Windows**     | Click the `+` icon in the address bar                        |
|     **MacOS** Chrome     | Click the `+` icon in the address bar                        |
| **MacOS** Safari | ❌<br/>😕 I hate this; open the link on Chrome                 |

What you’re currently using is a PWA, which dramatically simplifies this entire notes initiative, but is not supported on a few browsers. They are web applications that have been designed to be capable, reliable, and installable with a single codebase.

Using a PWA in this case allows the contributors of the website and I to ensure legible and understandable content, without worrying about the app development.

For more details, check out Google’s [blog post](https://web.dev/what-are-pwas/)

Commit message:

Linking contribute guidelines to home page

docs/index.md, after:

# 👋 Welcome!

Hi there, welcome to the university notes app! This is a collection of notes on Math, Computer, Economics, Finance and so much more. Feel free to share to everyone you know!

You can install right now, by clicking `Add to Home Screen`. Check out the [📱 Installation Guide](#installation-guide) for help.

## ℹ️ Tips

- Use the navbar ⬅️ to go through the website
- For changes/corrections, click the edit button 📝 at the top of any page

## ✨ Contributions

<a href="https://github.com/AhmedThahir/Uni_Notes/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=uni-notes/uni-notes" loading="lazy" />
</a>

A big thank you to all contributors, as this initiative would not be possible without their support! You can check out the progress of the project [here](https://github.com/orgs/uni-notes/projects/1).

Want to join the initiative? Check out the [guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) and start contributing now! Collaborators will be mentioned for their contributions. 

## Installation Guide

|      Platform      | Installation Step                                            |
| :----------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Android** Chrome | - Click the three dots at the top right<br />- Click `Install App` |
|   **iOS** Safari   | - Click share button in the bottom<br />- Click `Add to Home Screen` |
|   **iOS** Chrome   | ❌<br/>😕 I hate this; open the link on Safari                 |
|    **Windows**     | Click the `+` icon in the address bar                        |
|     **MacOS** Chrome     | Click the `+` icon in the address bar                        |
| **MacOS** Safari | ❌<br/>😕 I hate this; open the link on Chrome                 |

What you’re currently using is a PWA, which dramatically simplifies this entire notes initiative, but is not supported on a few browsers. They are web applications that have been designed to be capable, reliable, and installable with a single codebase.

Using a PWA in this case allows the contributors of the website and I to ensure legible and understandable content, without worrying about the app development.

For more details, check out Google’s [blog post](https://web.dev/what-are-pwas/)
